Version française d'origine: [README.md](README.md).

In the current climate of insecurity fostered by terrorist threats, 
several countries (including France, the United Kingdom and the 
United States) have mentioned the challenges faced by teams tasked
with identifying terrorists and preventing attacks. Data encryption is
a major issue for these teams, and thus an indirect threat to civilian
populations.

French political actors, eager to mitigate this threat but having 
neither the skills nor the time to examine the issue in detail, have
chosen to deal with the more well-known examples (WhatsApp, the 
Apple messenger app, the Tor network). Our project aims to illustrate
the true scope of terrorist encryption capabilities. 

The `index.html` file above is a secure messaging application that 
provides the same level of security as many commercial applications.
It runs on Windows, Linux, OS X, iOS, Android and even FirefoxOS. It
is available directly on the web, with no preliminary validation by
an App Store. Its use is hard to detect, hidden in an ocean of similar
traffic. Additional technical information is in [INFO.md](INFO.md).

However, this application is no masterpiece of intelligence or 
software engineering. Its code is shorter than 100 lines. An average
programmer could rewrite it from scratch in less than a day, and it
is likely that terrorist networks have at least one such programmer 
among their ranks.

**Forcing legal messaging applications to decrease the protection of 
their users' data will not prevent terrorist networks from setting up
their own encrypted channels.**

This is why it is essential to teach political decision-makers about
the true scope of our fight against encrypted communications, through
a list of concrete proposals:

## 1. Cryptographic documentation

We must restrict access to any form of manual or documentation about
cryptographic algorithms, in the same way that we restrict access to 
chemistry manuals about explosives. The source code of cryptographic
applications is itself a form of documentation, and reading or 
contributing to open source cryptographic projects should be grounds 
for surveillance.

## 2. Restricting free computation

We must not allow hardware to perform illegal cryptographic operations.
The modern App Store model (where a corporation is tasked with 
validating each application before it is available) is promising, as 
it would force a terrorist network to submit their application to a
validation committee before it could be used.

Setting up such a restriction would of course require a few minor
sacrifices, such as forbidding application distribution models that
do not include prior validation:

 - Web browsers will need to enforce JavaScript code certification,
   only executing code that has been specifically whitelisted. _This
   would be the best way to beat the above `index.html`._
 - Open source operating systems would need to validate their code and
   the code of each program they run by using a hardware black box, 
   only executing code that is white-listed.
   
## 3. Restricting development

It is unreasonable to prevent programmers from running their own 
applications while they are in the process of developing them, and 
it is unpractical to expect such "drafts" to be validated.

We must therefore allow machines dedicated to development work, under
the same conditions as firearms: 

 - Each should have a serial number that is imprinted on each 
   application generated by this machine.
 - Developers would need to get a license before they can use such a 
   machine. They would be personally responsible for programs created
   with it or run on it.
 - There would be an international file linking developers and the
   serial numbers of their machines.  
   
**In conclusion**, we hope that world governments will act swiftly to
implement these measures and protect us all.